Job Background/Context

The Data Science Analyst is an IMR Reporting support/control role within the DQSOM team. The role is responsible for developing and enhancing current reporting for BAU work streams as well as being responsible to project management of existing and new reporting, as well as enhancements. Responsibilities will include but not be limited to a management of existing staff tied to projects, review of existing reporting, development of new methodologies, maintain consistent documentation, and work alongside other DQM and business teams to improve data transition, QA materials and support on time delivery schedules. The analyst is responsible for properly reviewing the processes, physical materials, and sources in order to confirm quality of the information across single and multiple data points being reported and distributed to internal and external , taking into account all requirements.

The Analyst will also serve as a subject matter expert (SME) and team leader for the DQSOM Reporting team and have a deep understanding of their implications, in regards to IMR as well as DQP and activities associated with data construction and data linkages. Individual and team deliverables include analysis of complex information in order to successfully communicate program status to CITIs senior leadership teams.

Specific Responsibilities Include

Review and documentation of current process
Maintain assigned production goals and assist the overall team in gathering information for reporting purposes and track data delivery schedules
Ensure the completed reports align backend data sources and measurement points
Interact proactively with SMEs and Engagement leads, as needed, to ensure the completeness of data
Research and review information from internal and external sources
Validate the information within the various data sources to ensure complete and accurate updates are tracked across multiple platforms
Highlight any discrepancies in data and work proactively to ensure they do not enter the work stream

The selected candidate must also maintain a strong level of management skills and possess the ability to think on their feet and drive results. Strong written and verbal communication skills are key components to succeed in this role. The selected candidate must also maintain excellent organizational and time management skills with a high focus on attention to detail and accuracy as well has a background in working with other individuals to provide on time delivery of key reporting components
Req Qualifications:

Education/Certifications/Experience

Minimum 5+ years of Data Quality Analytics experience
Bachelor’s Degree and/or equivalent experience in Finance

Required Skills

Subject matter expertise in CDE.
Ability to manage and develop a highly functional team in order to deliver the highest level of data quality.
Familiarity with collection and assessment of data from multiple work streams and data models
Review of complex business information and executive reports
Demonstrated success articulating and delivering findings in support of reporting products
High level analytical research and investigative skill set
High level of analytical skills and problem-solving
Excellent planning and organizational skills
Strong PC skills (Microsoft Office with emphasis on Excel)
Advanced written and oral communication skills with the ability to summarize findings and present in a clear concise manner to peers, direct and senior level management
Ability to contribute, support, and lead efforts to achieve department/ business unit goals, up to and including recommendations to changes in policy and procedures resulting from review findings, participate in leadership level meetings, and quality assurance review of analyst case work
Ability to work independently and use a high level of independent judgment

Grade :All Job Level - All Job FunctionsAll Job Level - All Job Functions - US


Time Type



Citi is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer.
Minority/Female/Veteran/Individuals with Disabilities/Sexual Orientation/Gender Identity.

Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Citi”) invite all qualified interested applicants to apply for career opportunities. If you are a person with a disability and need a reasonable accommodation to use our search tools and/or apply for a career opportunity CLICK HERE.

To view the "EEO is the Law" poster CLICK HERE. To view the EEO is the Law Supplement CLICK HERE.
To view the EEO Policy Statement CLICK HERE.
To view the Pay Transparency Posting CLICK HERE.